## Deep Anomaly Playground

An interactive experience built with [Tensorflow.js](http://tensorflow.org/js) to demonstrate how deep neural networks can be applied for the task of anomaly detection for non-time series (stationary) data.


## Gentle Introduction to Anomaly Detection

> An outlier is an observation which deviates so much from other observations as to arouse suspicions that it was generated by a different mechanism - Hawkins 1980.

Anomalies often referred to as outliers, abnormalities, rare events or deviants are data points or patterns in data that do not adhere or conform to a well-defined notion of normal behavior. Anomaly detection is therefore defined as the task of finding patterns in data that do not adhere to a well-defined notion of normal behavior. 

At the heart of most approaches to anomaly detection (and by Merlin's beard ... there are a lot), is the fundamental concept of modeling "normal behaviour". Once this is achieved, we can leverage this knowledge/mechanism in assigning an anomaly score (a measure of "normalness") to new data points test time. 

Existing approaches for anomaly detection typically focus on time series data and univariate data streams (e.g. number of concurrent users of a telecoms base station over time). However, as data include more variables, it becomes more challenging to model each stream individually and aggregate results. For these situations, deep learning can be valuable. 

## Deep Learning for Anomaly Detection.


## Dataset


## Models

